Hello
Ubaldo Acosta greets you again. I hope
you're ready to start with this lesson
we're going to study the topic of
control statements in Java are you ready
let's go. Through our life we live making
decisions, decision like what career to
study?, what job to choose?, to marry
or not to marry? have children? start
saving at an early age, among many more
decisions. In the same way when we are
solving a computational problem we face
decision making and this is what we'll
study in this lesson. Decisions exists in
any modern programming language, since
they are the basis for the flow that we
define in the solution of a problem. To
handle this concept we are going to use
the if control structure with this we
will ask the question if this is true
then do this, we can also use the word
else so that in case that question is
not true then do something else. The
basic structure is shown in the figure
the if-else structure can be combined to
generate more complex cases for example
using if-else if-else the idea is to be
able to add decisions according to the
cases that arise when solving a problem,
also the if-else structure may have
nested statements that is one if within
another. We will put this into practice
as we progress through the course. In the
figure we can see the syntax that is
used in Java when using the if-else a
structure. To start a condition is
evaluated if this is true then the
instructions contained in that block of
code are executed. A block of code in the
if structure can be bracket or not, we
can do this in order to delimit the
statements or instructions that the if
should execute, in the event that curly
brackets are not used then only one
state
can be added after the world if. In
addition the else section is optional
being able to have only the part of the
if to execute the desired logic. We can
see in the figure they must command
syntax when using the if-else structure
and later we will do some exercises to
put the syntax into practice